Titre : Hybrid Headlines: Combining Topics and Sentence Compression

Abstract : This paper presents Topiary, a headline- generation system that creates very short, informative summaries for news stories by combining sentence compres- sion and unsupervised topic discovery. We will show that the combination of linguistically motivated sentence com- pression with statistically selected topic terms performs better than either alone, according to some automatic summary evaluation measures. In addition we de- scribe experimental results establishing an appropriate extrinsic task on which to measure the effect of summarization on human performance. We demonstrate the usefulness of headlines in compar- ison to full texts in the context of this extrinsic task.
Preamble : ACL2004-HEADLINE.txt
Aueturs :      David Zajic, Bonnie Dorr, Stacy President         Richard Schwartz
Biblio : Sabine Bergler, René Witte, Michelle Khalife,
Zhuoyan Li, and Frank Rudzicz. 2003. Using
knowledge-poor coreference resolution for text sum-
marization. In Proceedings of the 2003 Document
Understanding Conference, Draft Papers, pages 85–
92, Edmonton, Candada.
Bonnie Dorr, David Zajic, and Richard Schwartz.
2003a. Cross-language headline generation for
hindi. ACM Transactions on Asian Language Infor-      Liang Zhou and Eduard Hovy. 2003. Headline sum-
mation Processing (TALIP), 2:2.
Bonnie Dorr, David Zajic, and Richard Schwartz.
2003b. Hedge trimmer: A parse-and-trim approach
to headline generation. In Proceedings of the HLT-
NAACL 2003 Text Summarization Workshop, Ed-
monton, Alberta, Canada, pages 1–8.
T. Euler. 2002. Tailoring text using topic words: Se-
lection and compression. In Proceedings of 13th
International Workshop on Database and Expert
Systems Applications (DEXA 2002), 2-6 Septem-
ber 2002, Aix-en-Provence, France, pages 215–222.
IEEE Computer Society.
Kevin Knight and Daniel Marcu. 2000. Statistics-
based summarization – step one: Sentence com-
pression. In The 17th National Conference of
