Titre : Probabilistic Sentence Reduction Using Support Vector Machines

Abstract : This paper investigates a novel application of sup- port vector machines (SVMs) for sentence reduction. We also propose a new probabilistic sentence reduc- tion method based on support vector machine learn- ing. Experimental results show that the proposed methods outperform earlier methods in term of sen- tence reduction performance.
Preamble : probabilistic_sentence_reduction.txt
Aueturs :                  Minh Le Nguyen, Akira Shimazu, Susumu Horiguchi
Biblio : is called a relevant candidate.
For a given sentence, we used a simple
method, namely SVMP-R to obtain a re-
duced sentence by selecting a relevant candi-
date among the ten top reduced outputs using
SVMP-10.
Table 4 depicts the experiment results for
the baseline methods, SVM-D, SVMP-R, and
SVMP-10. The results shows that, when ap-
plied to sentence of a different genre, the per-
formance of SVMP-10 degrades smoothly, while
the performance of the deterministic sentence
reductions (the baselines and SVM determinis-
tic) drops sharply. This indicates that the prob-    T.T. Hastie and R. Tibshirani, “Classification
abilistic sentence reduction using support vector
machine is more stable.
Table 4 shows that the performance of
SVMP-10 is also close to the human reduction
outputs and is better than previous works. In
addition, SVMP-R outperforms the determin-
istic sentence reduction algorithms and the dif-
ferences between SVMP-R’s results and SVMP-
10 are small. This indicates that we can ob-
tain reduced sentences which are relevant to the
headline, while ensuring the grammatical and
the importance criteria compared to the origi-
nal sentences.
Table 4: Experiment results with Benton Cor-
pus
Method      Comp      Gramma
Baseline1   54.14%   7.61 ± 2.10   6.74 ± 1.92      syntax Reference Manual”; Proteus Project,
Baseline2   53.13%   7.72 ± 1.60   7.02 ± 1.90      New York University (1995).
SVM-D
SVMP-R      58.31%   8.25 ± 1.30   7.54 ± 1.39      reduction based on Decision tree model”,
SVMP-10     57.62%   8.60 ± 1.32   7.71 ± 1.41      Proceedings of 17th Pacific Asia Conference
Human
6     Conclusions
We have presented a new probabilistic sentence
reduction approach that enables a long sentence
to be rewritten into reduced sentences based on
support vector models. Our methods achieves
better performance when compared with earlier
methods. The proposed reduction approach can
generate multiple best outputs. Experimental
results showed that the top 10 reduced sentences
returned by the reduction process might yield
accuracies higher than previous work. We be-
lieve that a good ranking method might improve
the sentence reduction performance further in a
text.
